=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 nagios2influx.cfg

nagios2influx.cfgiguration file.


=head1 DESCRIPTION

Configuration is line based. Comments can be added by prefixing with "#".
The default location for this file is /etc/nagios/nagios2influx.cfg.

=head1 OPTIONS

Options are case insensitive.

=over 8

=item B<database>

This option is required when writing to InfluxDB's TCP listener.
 
=item B<debug>

The debug verbosity to be used if not specified on the command line. 

=item B<global_prefix>

If specified, all metrics will be prefixed with this value and a ".".

=item B<output>

stdout: parsed results are written to stdout. This is the expected mechanism to write to InfluxDB's UDP listener.

The URL (in the form http://I<host>:I<port>) of InfluxDB's TCP listener.

=item B<username> B<password>

Required when writing to InfluxDB's TCP listener with authentication enabled.

=item B<perfdata>

The locaiton of the Nagios performance datafile.

=item B<perfdelimiter>

A regular experession used to break a performance datafile line into component fields.

=item B<perfformat>

The format of the performance dataline line. Delimiters here must be literals.

Columns can be described in one of the following ways.

=over 8

=item B<data>

The performace data. Metics must follow the Nagios performace data standard. See Nagios documentation for further details.

=item B<label>

The name on the metric. This is usually the service name.

=item B<tag=name>

A field used to tag the metric with the value given be name.

=item B<time>

The timestamp field .

=item B<void>

A field to be discarded.

=back

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To process the Nagios default installed performace datafile of format:

$LASTSERVICECHECK$\t$HOSTNAME$\t$SERVICEDESC$\t$SERVICESTATE$\t$SERVICEATTEMPT$\t$SERVICESTATETYPE$\t$SERVICEEXECUTIONTIME$\t$SERVICELATENCY$\t$SERVICEOUTPUT$\t$SERVICEPERFDATA$

Results are written to InfluxDB's Nagios database (via local TCP listener).

 database=Nagios
 debug=0
 global_prefix=nagios
 output=http://localhost:8086
 username=nagios
 password=nagios
 perfdata=/var/nagios/service-perfdata.out
 perfdelimiter=\t
 perfformat=time	tag=hostname	label	tag=state	void	void	void	void	void	data

Note: the format here uses tabs.


To process the preformace data format used by the nagiosgraphs plugin specified as

$LASTSERVICECHECK$||$HOSTNAME$||$SERVICEDESC$||$SERVICEOUTPUT$||$SERVICEPERFDATA$

 debug=0
 perfdata=/var/spool/nagios/perfdata.log
 perfdelimiter=\|\|
 perfformat=time||tag=hostname||label||void||data
 output=stdout

Metrics are written to stdout. 

If the -n (or --preserve)  option is used on the command line, the datafile can be processes by nagiosgraph after being processed by nagios2influx.
Note the need to esacape the delimiter.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

None.

=head1 FILES

=over 8

=item F</usr/bin/nagios2influx>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Andrew Pickin

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<nagios2influx(1)>

